Comfort, comfort my people,
says your God.
Speak tenderly to Jerusalem
and proclaim to her
that her hard service has been completed,
that her sin has been paid for,
that she has received from the LORD's hand double for all her sins.

A voice of one calling,
In the desert prepare the way for the LORD.
Make straight in the wilderness a highway for our God.
Every valley shall be raised up,
every mountain and hill made low.
The rough ground shall be made level,
the rugged places a plain.
And the glory of the LORD will be revealed
and all mankind together will see it,
for the mouth of the LORD has spoken.

A voice says, Cry out!
And I said, What shall I cry?
All men are like grass, and all their glory is like the flowers of the field.
The grass withers and the flowers fall
because the breath of the LORD blows on them.
Surely the people are grass.
The grass withers and the flowers fall,
but the word of our God stands forever.

You who bring good tidings to Zion,
go up on a high mountain.
You who bring good tidings to Jerusalem,
lift up your voice with a shout!
Lift it up, do not be afraid!
Say to the towns of Judah,
Here is your God!
See, the Sovereign LORD comes with power
and his arm rules for him!
See, his reward is with him
and his recompense accompanies him.
He tends his flock like a shepherd;
he gathers the lambs in his arms and carries them close to his heart;
he gently leads those that have young.

Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand
or, with the breadths of his hand marked off the heavens?
Who has held the dust of the earth in a basket
and weighed the mountains on the scales and the hills in a balance?
Who has understood the mind of the LORD
or instructed him as his counsellor?
Whom did the LORD consult to enlighten him,
and who showed him the right way?
Who was it that taught him knowledge
or showed him the path of understanding?

Surely the nations are like a drop in the bucket.
They are regarded as dust on the scales.
He weighs the islands as though they were fine dust.
Lebanon is not sufficient for altar fires,
nor its animals enough for burnt offerings.
Before him, all the nations are as nothing.
They are regarded as worthless
and less than nothing.

To whom, then, will you compare God?
Or what image will you compare him to?
As for an idol, a craftsman casts it,
and a goldsmith overlays it with gold
and fashions silver chains for it.
A man too poor to present such an offering
selects wood that will not rot.
He looks for a skilled craftsman
to set up an idol that will not topple.

Do you not know?
Have you not heard?
Has it not been told you from the beginning?
Have you not understood since the earth was founded?
He sits enthroned above the circle of the earth
and its people are like grasshoppers.
He stretches out the heavens like a canopy
and spreads them out like a tent to live in.
He brings princes to naught
and reduces the rulers of this world to nothing.
No sooner are they planted,
no sooner are they sown,
no sooner do they take root in the ground,
than he blows on them and they wither,
and a whirlwind sweeps them away like chaff.

To whom will you compare me?
Or who is my equal? says the Holy One.
Lift your eyes and look to the heavens.
Who created all these?
He who brings out the starry host one by one
and calls them each by name,
because of his great power and strength
not one of them is missing.

Why do you say, oh Jacob,
and complain, oh Israel,
my way is hidden from the LORD,
my cause is disregarded by my God?
Do you not know?
Have you not heard?
The LORD is the everlasting God,
the Creator of the ends of the earth.
He will not grow tired or weary,
and his understanding no one can fathom.
He gives strength to the weary
and increases the power of the weak.
Even youths grow tired and weary,
and young men stumble and fall,
but those who hope in the LORD
will renew their strength.
They will soar on wings like eagles.
They will run and not grow weary,
they will walk and not be faint.

-- Isaiah 40
%
And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping
watch over their flock by night. And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them,
and the glory of the Lord shone around them: and they were sore afraid.

And the angel said unto them, "Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings
of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in
the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign
unto you: You shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a
manger."

And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising
God, and saying, "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will
toward men."

And as it came to pass, as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the
shepherds said one to another, "Let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and see this
thing which is come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us."

-- Luke 2:8-15 (KJV)
%
Now what I am commanding you is not too difficult for you or out of your reach.
It is not up in heaven, so that you have to ask, "Who will ascend into heaven
to get it and proclaim it to us so we may obey it?" Nor is it beyond the sea,
so that you have to ask, "Who will cross the sea to get it and proclaim it to
us so we may obey it?" No, the word is very near you; it is in your mouth and
in your heart so you may obey it.

See, I set before you life and prosperity, death and destruction. For I command
you today to love the LORD your God, to walk in his ways, and to keep his
commandments, decrees, and laws; then you will live and increase, and the LORD
your God will bless you in the land you are entering to possess.

But if your heart turns away and you are not obedient, and if you are drawn
away to bow down to other gods and worship them, I declare to you this day that
you will certainly be destroyed. You will not live long in the land you are
crossing the Jordan to enter and possess.

This day I call heaven and earth as witnesses against you that I have set
before you life and death, blessings and curses. Now choose life, so that you
and your children may live and that you may love the LORD your God, listen to
his voice, and hold fast to him. For the LORD is your life, and he will give
you many years in the land he swore to give to your fathers Abraham, Isaac, and
Jacob.

-- Deuteronomy 30:11-20
%
What shall we say, then? Shall we go on sinning so that grace may increase? By
no means! We died to sin; how can we live in it any longer? Or don't you know
that all of us who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his
death? We were therefore buried with him through baptism into death in order
that, just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father,
we too may live a new life.

If we have been united with him like this in his death, we will certainly also
be united with him in his resurrection. For we know that our old self was
crucified with him so that the body of sin might be done away with, that we
should no longer be slaves to sin -- because anyone who has died has been freed
from sin.

Now if we died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. For we
know that since Christ was raised from the dead, he cannot die again; death no
longer has mastery over him. The death he died, he died to sin once for all;
but the life he lives, he lives to God.

In the same way, count yourselves dead to sin but alive to God in Christ Jesus.
Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you obey its evil
desires. Do not offer the parts of your body to sin, as instruments of
wickednesss, but rather offer yourselves to God, as those who have been brought
from death to life; and offer the parts of your body to him as instruments of
righteousness. For sin shall not be your master, because you are not under the
law, but under grace.

What then? Shall we sin because we are not under law but under grace? By no
means! Don't you know that when you offer yourselves to someone to obey him as
slaves, you are slaves to the one whom you obey -- whether you are slaves to
sin, which leads to death, or to obedience, which leads to righteousness? But
thanks be to God that, though you used to be slaves to sin, you wholeheartedly
obeyed the form of teaching to which you were entrusted. You have been set free
from sin and have become slaves to righteousness.

I put this in human terms because you are weak in your natural selves. Just as
you used to offer the parts of your body in slavery to impurity and to
ever-increasing wickedness, so now offer them in slavery to righeousness
leading to holiness. When you were slaves to sin, you were free from the
control of righeousness. What benefit did you reap at that time from the things
you are now ashamed of? Those things result in death! But now that you have
been set free from sin and have become slaves to God, the benefit you reap
leads to holiness, and the result is eternal life. For the wages of sin is
death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.

-- Romans 6
%
Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good;
  his love endures forever.

Let the redeemed of the LORD tell their story --
  those he redeemed from the hand of the foe,
those he gathtered from the lands,
  from east and west, from north and south.

Some wandered in desert wastelands,
  finding no way to a city where they could settle.
They were hungry and thirsty,
  and their lives ebbed away.
Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble,
  and he delivered them from their distress.
He led them by a straight way
  to a city where they could settle.
Let them give thanks to the LORD for his unfailing love
  and his wonderful deeds for mankind,
for he satisfies the thirsty
  and fills the hungry with good things.

Some sat in darkness, in utter darkness,
  prisoners suffering in iron chains,
because they rebelled against God's commands
  and despised the plans of the Most High.
So he subjected them to bitter labor;
  they stumbled, and there was no one to help.
Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble,
  and he saved them from their distress.
He brought them out of darkness, the utter darkness,
  and broke away their chains.
Let them give thanks to the LORD for his unfailing love
  and his wonderful deeds for mankind,
for he breaks down gates of bronze
  and cuts through bars of iron.


Some became fools through their rebellious ways
  and suffered affliction because of their iniquities.
They loathed all food
  and drew near the gates of death.
Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble,
  and he saved them from their distress.
He sent out his word and healed them;
  he rescued them from the grave.
Let them give thanks to the LORD for his unfailing love
  and his wonderful deeds for mankind.
Let them sacrifice thank offerings
  and tell of his works with songs of joy.

Some went out on the sea in ships;
  they were merchants on the mighty waters.
They saw the works of the LORD,
  his wonderful deeds in the deep.
For he spoke and stirred up a tempest
  that lifted high the waves.
They mounted up to the heavens and went down to the depths;
  in their peril their courage melted away.
They reeled and staggered like drunkards;
  they were at their wits' end.
Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble,
  and he saved them from their distress.
He stilled the storm to a whisper;
  the waves of the sea were hushed.
They were glad when it grew calm,
  and he guided them to their desired haven.
Let them give thanks to the LORD for his unfailing love
  and his wonderful deeds for mankind.
Let them exalt him in the assembly of the people
  and praise him in the council of the elders.

He turned rivers in to a desert,
  flowing springs into thirsty ground,
and fruitful land into a salt waste,
  because of the wickedness of those who lived there.
He turned the desert into pools of water
  and the parched ground into flowing springs;
there he brought the hungry to live,
  and they founded a city where they could settle.

They sowed fields and planted vineyards
  that yielded a fruitful harvest;
he blessed them, and their numbers greatly increased,
  and he did not let their herds diminish.
Then their numbers decreased, and they were humbled
  by oppression, calamity, and sorrow;
he who pours contempt on nobles
  made them wander in a trackless waste.
But he lifted the needy out of their affliction
  and increased their families like flocks.
The upright see and rejoice,
  but all the wicked shut their mouths.

Let the one who is wise heed these things
  and ponder the loving deeds of the LORD.

-- Psalm 107
%
Listen, children, to a father's discipline,
and pay attention so that you may gain understanding,
for I am giving you good instruction.
Don't abandon my teaching.
When I was a son with my father,
tender and precious to my mother,
he taught me and said:
"Your heart must hold on to my words.
Keep my commandments and live.
Get wisdom, get understanding;
don't forget or turn away from the words from my mouth.
Don't abandon wisdom, and she will watch over you;
love her, and she will guard you.
Wisdom is supreme --- so get wisdom.
And whatever else you get, get understanding.
Cherish her, and she will exalt you;
if you embrace her, she will honor you.
She will place a garland of favor on your head;
she will give you a crown of beauty."

-- Proverbs 4:1-9 CSB
%
