For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God.

-- Romans 3:23
%
Create in me a pure heart, O God,
  and renew a steadfast spirit within me.
Do not cast me from your presence
  or take your Holy Spirit from me.
Restore to me the joy of your salvation
  and grant me a willing spirit, to sustain me.

-- Psalm 51:10-12
%
For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ
Jesus.

-- Romans 6:23
%
For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing;
it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast.

-- Ephesians 2:8-9
%
Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit, but in humility consider
others better than yourselves. Each of you should look not only to your own
interests, but also to the interests of others.

-- Philippians 2:3-4
%
Finally, be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Put on the full armor of
God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. For our
struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the
authorities, against the powers of the dark world and against the spiritual
forces of evil in the heavenly realm.

-- Ephesians 6:10-12
%
I can do all things through him who gives me strength.

-- Philippians 4:13
%
For though we live in the world, we do not wage war as the world does. The
weapons we fight with are not the weapons of the world. On the contrary, they
have divine power to demolish strongholds.

-- 2 Corinthians 10:3-4
%
If you confess with your mouth, "Jesus is Lord," and believe in your heart that
God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For it is with your heart that
you believe and are justified, and it is with your mouth that you confess and
are saved.

-- Romans 10:9-10
%
Therefore confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you
may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective.

-- James 5:16
%
All Scripture is God-breathed, and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting,
and training in righteousness, so that the servant of God may be thoroughly
prepared for every good work.

-- 2 Timothy 3:16-17
%
But God demonstrates His own love for us in this: While we were still sinners,
Christ died for us.

-- Romans 5:8
%
But in your heart revere Christ as Lord. Always be ready to give an answer to
anyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have. But do this
with gentleness and respect.

-- 1 Peter 3:15
%
Not so with you. Instead, whoever wants to become great among you must be your
servant, and whoever wants to be first must be the slave of all. For even the
Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a
ransom for many.

-- Mark 10:43-45
%
Very truly I tell you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has
eternal life and will not be judged but has crossed over from death to life.

-- John 5:24
%
Now this is eternal life: that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus
Christ, whom you have sent.

-- John 17:3
%
Finally, all of you, be like-minded, be sympathetic, love one another, be
compassionate and humble. Do not repay evil with evil or insult with insult. On
the contrary, repay evil with blessing, because to this you were called so that
you may inherit a blessing.

-- 1 Peter 3:8-9
%
And Jesus said, "I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the
Father except through me."

-- John 14:6
%
Is anyone among you in trouble? Let them pray. Is anyone happy? Let them sing
songs of praise. Is anyone among you sick? Let them call the elders of the
church to pray over them and anoint them with oil in the name of the Lord. And
the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well; the Lord will raise
them up. If they have sinned, they will be forgiven.

-- James 5:13-15
%
To the weak I became weak, to win the weak. I have become all things to all
people so that by all possible means I might save some. I do all this for the
sake of the gospel, that I may share in its blessings.

-- 1 Corinthians 9:22-23
%
But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, to
gratify its desires.

-- Romans 13:14
%
You do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist
that appears for a little time and then vanishes. Instead you ought to say, "If
the Lord wills, we will live to do this or that."

-- James 4:14-15
%
And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will
of God abides forever.

-- 1 John 2:17
%
And without faith it is impossible to please him, for whoever would draw near
to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him.

-- Hebrews 11:6
%
And this is the confidence we have toward him, that if we ask anything
according to his will he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever
we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked of him.

-- 1 John 5:14-15
%
Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations, I will be
exalted in the earth.

-- Psalm 46:10
%
Through your offspring, Abraham, all nations on earth will be blessed, because
you have obeyed me.

-- Genesis 22:18
%
My Presence will go with you, and I will give you rest.

-- Exodus 33:14
%
Whom have I in heaven but you?
    And earth has nothing I desire besides you.
My flesh and my heart may fail,
    but God is the strength of my heart
    and my portion forever.

-- Psalm 73:25-26
%
I will walk among you and be your God, and you will be my people.

-- Leviticus 26:12
%
But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to
become children of God, who were born, not of blood nor of the will of man, but
of God.

-- John 1:12-13
%
The LORD is slow to anger, abounding in love and forgiving sin and rebellion.

-- Numbers 14:18
%
[God] has given us the Spirit as a deposit, guaranteeing the things to come.

-- 2 Corinthians 5:5b
%
If you seek the LORD your God, you will find Him if you seek Him with all your
heart and with all your soul.

-- Deuteronomy 4:29
%
Do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom
you have from God? You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. So
glorify God in your bodies.

-- 1 Corinthians 6:19-20
%
Keep this Book of the Law always on your lips; meditate on it day and night, so
that you will be careful to do everything written in it. Then you will be
prosperous and successful.

-- Joshua 1:8
%
And we, who with unveiled faces all reflect the Lord's glory, are being
transformed into his likeness with ever-increasing glory, which comes from the
Lord, who is the Spirit.

-- 2 Corinthians 3:18
%
Praise be to the Lord, who this day has not left you without a redeemer.

-- Ruth 4:14
%
Unless the LORD builds the house,
  its builders labor in vain.
Unless the LORD watches over the city
  the watchmen stand guard in vain.
In vain you rise early
  and stay up late,
toiling for food to eat --
  for he grants sleep to those he loves.

-- Psalm 127:1-2
%
The LORD does not look at the things people look at. People look at outward
appearance, but the LORD looks at the heart.

-- 1 Samuel 16:7
%
And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to
completion at the day of Jesus Christ.

-- Philippians 1:6
%
As for God, his way is perfect: the Lord's Word is flawless; he shields all who
take refuge in him.

-- 2 Samuel 22:31
%
Examine yourselves, to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Or do
you not realize this about yourselves, that Jesus Christ is in you? -- unless
indeed you fail to meet the test? *prove genuine

-- 2 Corinthians 13:5
%
Oh LORD, God of Israel, there is no God like you, in heaven above or on earth
beneath, keeping covenant and showing steadfast love to your servants who walk
before you with all their heart.

-- 1 Kings 8:23
%
Come, all you who are thirsty,
  come to the waters;
and you who have no money,
  come, buy, and eat!
Come, buy wine and milk
  without money and without cost.
Why spend your money on what is not bread
  and your labor on what does not satisfy?
Listen, listen to me, and eat what is good,
  and your soul will delight in the richest of fare.
Give ear and come to me;
  hear me, that your soul may live.

-- Isaiah 55:1-3
%
Do not be quick with your mouth,
  do not be hasty in your heart
  to utter anything before God.
God is in heaven
  and you are on earth,
  so let your words be few.

-- Ecclesiastes 5:2
%
Worship the Lord your God; it is He who will deliver you from the hand of
all your enemies.

-- 2 Kings 17:39
%
And this is the judgement: the light has come into the world, and people loved
the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil.

-- John 3:19
%
If my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and
seek My face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, and
I will forgive their sin and will heal their land.

-- 2 Chronicles 7:14
%
I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who
lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of
God, who loved me and gave himself for me.

-- Galatians 2:20
%
The gracious hand of our God is on everyone who looks to Him, but His great
anger is against all who forsake Him.

-- Ezra 8:22
%
But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law,
although the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it -- the righeousness of God
through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction:
for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by
his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God
put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith.

-- Romans 3:21-25a
%
God, you have kept your promise because you are righteous.

-- Nehemiah 9:8
%
Seek the Lord while he may be found;
	call upon him while he is near;
let the wicked forsake his way,
	and the unrighteous man his thoughts;
let him return to the Lord, that he may have compassion on him,
	and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.

-- Isaiah 55:6-7
%
I know that my Redeemer lives, and then in the end He will stand on the earth.
And after my skin has been destroyed, yet in my flesh I will see God; I myself
will see him with my own eyes -- I, and not another. How my heart yearns within
me!

-- Job 19:25-27
%
For in the case of those who have once been enlightened and have tasted of the
heavenly gift and have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit and have tasted
the good word of God and the powers of the age to come, and then have fallen
away, it is impossible to renew them again to repentance, since they again
crucify to themselves the Son of God, and put Him to open shame.

-- Hebrews 6:4-6
%
The Lord is a refuge for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble. Those
who know your name trust in you, for you, Lord, have never forsaken those who
seek you.

-- Psalm 9:9-10
%
Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by
the renewing of your mind. Then you will be able to test and approve what God's
will is -- his good, pleasing, and perfect will.

-- Romans 12:2
%
The LORD had said to Abram, "Leave your country, your people, and your father's household and go to the land that I will show you.

I will make you into a great nation
    and I will bless you;
I will make your name great
    and you will be a blessing.
I will bless those who bless you
    and whoever curses you I will curse;
and all peoples on earth
    will be blessed through you.

-- Genesis 12:1-3
%
And Jesus came and said to them, "All authority in heaven and on earth has been
given to Me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in
the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to
observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the
end of the age."

-- Matthew 28:18-20
%
But when the love and kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not
because of righteous things we had done, but because of his mercy. He saved us
through the washing of rebirth and renewal by the Holy Spirit, whom he poured
out on us generously through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that, having been
justified by his grace, we might become heirs having the hope of eternal life.

-- Titus 3:4-7
%
Rend your heart and not your garments. Return to the LORD your God, for he is
gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love; and he
relents over disaster.

-- Joel 2:13
%
And the LORD said, "You pity the plant, for which you did not labor, nor did
you make it grow, which came into being in a night and perished in a night. And
should not I pity Ninevah, that great city, in which there are more than
120,000 persons who do not know their right hand from their left, and also much
cattle?

-- Jonah 4:10-11
%
Better is open rebuke
  than hidden love.

-- Proverbs 27:5
%
Therefore, prepare your minds for action; be self-controlled; set your hope
fully on the grace to be given you when Jesus Christ is revealed. As obedient
children, do not conform to the evil desires you had when you lived in
ignorance. But just as he who called you is holy, so be holy in all you do; for
it is written: "Be holy, because I am holy."

-- 1 Peter 1:13-16
%
Do not be anxious about anything, but in every situation, by prayer and
petition, with thanksgiving, present your requests to God. And the peace of
God, which transcends all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds
in Christ Jesus.

Finally, brothers and sisters, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is
right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable -- if
anything is excellent or praiseworthy -- think about such things. Whatever you
have learned or received or heard from me, or seen in me -- put it into
practice. And the God of peace will be with you.

-- Philippians 4:6-9
%
Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good;
  his love endures forever.

Let the redeemed of the LORD tell their story --
  those he redeemed from the hand of the foe,
those he gathered from the lands,
  from east and west, from north and south.

-- Psalm 107:1-3
%
I wait for the LORD, my whole being waits,
  and in his word I put my hope.
I wait for the Lord
  more than watchmen wait for the morning,
  more than watchmen wait for the morning.

-- Psalm 130:5-6
%
Do not offer any part of yourself to sin as an instrument of wickedness, but
rather offer yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to
life; and offer every part of yourself to him as an instrument of
righteousness.

-- Romans 6:13
%
For Christ's love compels us, for we are convinced that one died for all, and
therefore all died. And he died for all, that those who live should no longer
live for themselves but for him who died for them and was raised again.

-- 2 Corinthians 5:14-15
%
Through [Christ] we received grace and apostleship to call all the Gentiles to
the obedience that comes from faith for his name's sake.

-- Romans 1:5
%
You have declared this day that the LORD is your God and that you will walk in
obedience to him, that you will keep his decrees, commands, and laws -- that
you will listen to him. And the LORD has declared this day that you are his
people, his treasured possession as he promised, and that you are to keep all
his commands. He has declared that he will set you in praise, fame, and honor
high above all the nations he has made and that you will be a people holy to
the LORD your God, as he promised.

-- Deuteronomy 26:18-19
%
